initial markdown conversion (#256)
chipsalliance/caliptra-rtl: docs/Caliptra_rtl.md

![OCP Logo](./images/OCP_logo.png)

<p style="text-align: center;">Caliptra Integration Specification</p>

> <p style="text-align: center;">Version 0.8</p>

Reviewer: When will this move to 1.0?

Author: @andreslagarcavilla thoughts on when to move to v1?

| Cores-VeeR | [GitHub - chipsalliance/Cores-VeeR-EL2](https://github.com/chipsalliance/Cores-VeeR-EL2) | VeeR EL2 Programmer’s Reference Manual | [chipsalliance/Cores-VeeR-EL2 · GitHubPDF](http://cores-swerv-el2/RISC-V_SweRV_EL2_PRM.pdf%20at%20master%20%C2%B7) |
| AHB Lite Bus | [aignacio/ahb_lite_bus: AHB Bus lite v3.0 (github.com)](https://github.com/aignacio/ahb_lite_bus) | AHB Lite Protocol<br> [Figure 2: SoC interface block diagram](#soc-interface-definition) | [ahb_lite_bus/docs at master · aignacio/ahb_lite_bus (github.com)](https://github.com/aignacio/ahb_lite_bus/tree/master/docs)<br> [ahb_lite_bus/diagram_ahb_bus.png at master · aignacio/ahb_lite_bus (github.com)](https://github.com/aignacio/ahb_lite_bus/blob/master/diagram_ahb_bus.png) |
| SHA 256 | [secworks/sha256: Hardware implementation of the SHA-256 cryptographic hash function (github.com)](https://github.com/secworks/sha256) | | |
| SHA 512 | | | |
| SPI Controller | <https://github.com/pulp-platform/axi_spi_master> | | |

# Caliptra Core

The following figure shows the Caliptra Core.

*Figure 1: Caliptra block diagram*

## Boot Media Dependent (passive) vs Boot Media Integrated (active) profile

> In the BMD profile, QSPI and I3C IO peripherals are disabled using integration-time defines passed to the hardware, which are also exposed to ROM. Peripheral IOs can be tied off appropriately for the BMD profile at SoC integration time. For more information on the passive vs. active profile differences, see the boot flows in[ Caliptra profiles](https://chipsalliance.github.io/Caliptra/doc/Caliptra.html#caliptra-profiles). Only the BMD profile is supported for the first generation release of Caliptra.

Reviewer 2: Following the suggestion to replace language here 
```suggestion
In the BMD profile, QSPI and I3C IO peripherals are disabled using integration-time defines passed to the hardware, which are also exposed to ROM. Peripheral IOs can be tied off appropriately for the BMD profile at SoC integration time. For more information on the BMD vs BMI profile differences, see the boot flows in[ Caliptra profiles](https://chipsalliance.github.io/Caliptra/doc/Caliptra.html#caliptra-profiles). Only the BMD profile is supported for the first generation release of Caliptra.
```

# SoC interface definition

The following figure shows the SoC interface definition.

*Figure 2: SoC Interface Block Diagram*

## Integration parameters

The following table describes integration parameters.

*Table 2: Integration parameters*

| **Parameter name** | **Width** | **Description** |
| :--------- | :--------- | :--------- |
| APB_ADDR_WIDTH | 32 | Width of the APB Address field. Default to 32. |
| APB_DATA_WIDTH | 32 | Width of the APB Data field. Default to 32. |

> | APB_USER_REQ_WIDTH | TODO | Width of the APB PAUSER field. |

Reviewer: Can we remove TODOs? Or create an issue to track removal of them and reference the Issue here.

Author: issue created #260

Reviewer 2: For this specific TODO - the value is '32'.
The issue is still useful for other todos like the LINT rules though.

| CPTRA_SET_MBOX_PAUSER_INTEG | 5 | Each bit hardcodes the valid PAUSER for mailbox at integration time. |
| CPTRA_MBOX_VALID_PAUSER | \[4:0\]\[31:0\] | Each parameter corresponds to a hardcoded valid PAUSER value for mailbox, set at integration time. Must set corresponding bit in the CPTRA_SET_MBOX_PAUSER_INTEG parameter for this valid pauser override to be used. |
| CPTRA_DEF_MBOX_VALID_PAUSER | 32 | Sets the default valid PAUSER for mailbox accesses. This PAUSER is valid when any VALID_PAUSER is unlocked or not set by INTEG parameter. |
| CPTRA_SET_FUSE_PAUSER_INTEG | 1 | Sets the valid PAUSER for fuse accesses at integration time. |
| CPTRA_FUSE_VALID_PAUSER | 32 | Overrides the programmable valid PAUSER for fuse accesses when CPTRA_SET_FUSE_PAUSER_INTEG is set to 1. |

> *Table 3*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Table 3: Integration Defines*
```

* Internal Registers - [clp — clp Reference (chipsalliance.github.io)](https://chipsalliance.github.io/caliptra-rtl/main/internal-regs/?p=)

## Fuses

Fuses are writable only one time and require a cptra\_pwrgood to be recycled to be written again.

After all fuses are written, the fuse done register at the end of the fuse address space must be set to 1 to lock the fuse writes and to proceed with the boot flow.

Although fuse values (and the fuse done register) persist across a warm reset, SoC is still required to perform a write to the fuse done register while in the BOOT\_FUSE state in order to complete the bringup from reset. See 6.1 Boot FSM for further details.

## Interface rules

The following figure shows the reset rules and timing.

*Figure 3: Reset rules and timing diagram*

Deassertion of cptra\_pwrgood indicates a power cycle that results in returning Caliptra to its default state. All resettable flops are reset.

De-assertion of cptra\_rst\_b indicates a warm reset cycle that resets all but the “sticky” registers (fuses, error logging, etc.).

### APB arbitration

> Caliptra is a “slave” on the APB bus. If SoCs have multiple APBs or other proprietary-fabric protocols that require any special fabric arbitration, that arbitration is done at SoC level.

Reviewer 2: Should we move away from the master/slave terminology where possible?
Suggestion:
Caliptra is a client on the APB bus, incapable of initiating transfers.
